[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Unit tests just like all
tests are automatically generated by
ember-cli in a very basic way.
They test in isolation and that is
important because a lot of the things that
we've talked about that are globally
available like components I've said.
If it's in the components folder,
you can use it in any template,
not true in the unit test.
Unit test is you start with sort
of an empty context only seated
with the object that you are aiming
to test and then anything else,
there is a needs option when
you're setting up the test module.
Where you can bring in additional
objects that are necessary.
For example if you're unit testing
a model and it relates to another model.
There's like a has many relationship.
You'll need to bring in that other
model so that you can kind of have
a complete meaningful scenario, and
this will also make it clear how
coupled together things start to get.
Because if you have a unit test and
you're needing you know 15 other
things you're not really
writing a unit test any more.
And it may be time to reconsider
shifting towards something else.
These run really, really quickly and
that's why when you find unit
testable chunks of code go for this.
Get a lot of confidence where it
makes sense from unit tests and
leave the acceptance tests and
everything else for the things that
are more difficult like routes.
So component integration tests.
The important thing to realize here is
what you are using to set up a scenario.
And I can actually show you
what one looks like what
are the other generated test cases.
GithubOrg test.
And this was a major major improvement.
It used to be very difficult to set up,
like some you know handle bars snip it and
to build a test case around that now,
you're actually just render in line.
As long as you put hbs before it,
it'll get treated
as a handlebars template and
not just as a string and
you render something and
then, you can test it.
And you can get and set and
that's the equivalent of getting and
setting on the component itself.
So, you can really.
You know set the component the JavaScript
piece of the component up directly.
You can set up a scenario in terms
of I'm going to pass at name.
I'm going to pass at this.
So its a very powerful tool in
terms of being able to you know
get a variety of scenarios validated and
you can see up
here even they're giving you instructions
on you know how do you setup an action?
You just do this.on myAction so
if we were, for
example, and this is a preview of
what we're gonna work on in a second.
We have an action that comes out of our
component whenever favoriting is tiled.
And this will let us validate that.
In fact, when you click it,
the action is fired.
But this is a very easy way of doing
that and It's come a tremendously long
way compared to the hoops you
used to have to jump through.
So finally, Acceptance Tests,
you're testing the app as a whole.
It's slower.
It will attempt to make API requests,
because it's just programmatically
driving your app.
So, if you are not Interested in actually
making API requests potentially,
if you have an app that changes data and
you're gonna end up creating a bunch
of test records and polluting your API.
And polluting your data base basically
you may want to use something like
Pretender or Ember CLI Mirage,
both of which are used to mock API.
And in addition to that,
you cannot use those.
But, just be aware that that is sort of a
conceptually a different kind of testing,
where you're you're really making
sure the contract between the API and
the URL are intact.
You're really hitting
an API getting real data.
And in that case you're gonna
write your test differently and
you're probably not going to be deleting
things and creating things quite so much.
So in acceptance tests and this is where a
lot of complexity exist because in theory,
if you have a product owner and they say,
your thing needs to be able to do this and
this, and this, and this.
You may be building an acceptance test
to represent those product requirements.
So these are the tests that get big and
a little bit complicated.
So a lot of helper functions to ease
that pain, we've got some synchronous
helpers that are really about reading
the current situation reading state.
As I said before when we're running tests,
especially when we're running in
the browser your app is running.
It's just rendering the whole
Ember app into a div.
Be aware of this if you use
the global jQuery selector.
You may pick up parts of the test
runner if you're not careful, so
that's what this find
synchronous helper is for.
And make sure that you're looking
up elements only within your ember
application and you're not gonna grab
the check boxes that turn on and
off different test modules and
things like that.
Asynchronous test helpers
are really interesting.
So, these are for
things that may trigger a transition or
other sorts of asynchronous behavior.
What's happening under the hood here
is that each of these is essentially
returning a promise and accumulating
promises in an array behind the scene.
And basically you're
chaining promises together
to run things asynchronously.
So you can write synchronous
looking code but
really you can deal with asynchrony
within the pieces of this code.
So, if we look at this, visit,
andThen, and
click are all asynchronous test helpers.
So, we start by visiting a URL, and
we know that the router's gonna deal with
the transition there, and potentially
you're making a real API request.
And we have this promise aware hooks.
We have to wait until that resolves.
So, this is going to add
a promise to the array.
When you define visit.
Right?
And then we're immediately going
to proceed to the next step.
And we're going to define the next step,
and
then we're going to define the next step,
and we're going to define the next step.
And so now we have this chain of promises,
so this code will actually evaluate
really quickly, because you're
just sort of scheduling work.
And then when visit is complete
the callback to end then will be run and
when that's complete the click will be run
and when that's complete, you know you
sort of just go down the line so that
everything happens in the proper order.
And you can actually write your
own asynchronous test helpers.
For example, Liquid Fire which is
a popular way to animate transitions and
other things in ember.
The animations take time.
They actually add time to
the transitioning between two states in
an application potentially.
If your API call comes back right away but
you still say I want a 0.5
second transition, you know that's a new
time that has to be taken into account.
And so it communicates with the testing
tooling and says here's a new promise and
wait until that's done before we say
good to go, proceed to the next step.
Everybody clear on this stuff?
Now, one thing you have to be careful of,
so as I mentioned, this is basically,
this code here is like creating
four promises in a row.
If we had some synchronous code in
between a couple of these things,
we have to remember that that will
be evaluated immediately, and so
if we had like asynchronous click.
If we just did dollar sign, dot selector
dot click using the jQuery click function.
That will be evaluated right away.
So you don't want to mix
a sync code with sync code.
What you wanna do is use this andThen
helper which gives you a place to put
sent code in the correct spot so
that it's part of this promise chain.
But everything at the top level of
an acceptance test should really be one of
these async test helpers.
>> Mike North: So Mocking API Responses,
pretender is sort of
a lower level library.
Though the way it works and it's by
the way completely independent of ember,
used heavily in ember but
it is very generic.
What it does essentially is it
hijacks XML HTTP request and
puts something else in its place
to intercept attempted XHR.
And you set up a mock server before
your tests start running and
you say these are the URLs that I expect
request to be sent out to you and
here is the way to handle those requests.
And then when you start running
it knows what to do and
it will in fact raise errors
if it sees traffic go out,
if it sees attempts to make
requests that are not on the list.
You can define pass throughs which let
you allow certain things to go through.
But a very useful tool for mocking XHR.
Mirage actually builds on top of Pretender
and gives you just some additional sugar,
the ability to have sort of an in memory
database of records that you can return.
And particularly if you're
operating at a high level and
you're just making standard
JSON RESTful API requests.
Mirage is probably a good option as well.